Welcome to Lesson 2, Intro to C++ Programming. In this lesson, we're going to take a look at some simple C++ applications, and I'll show you how to display text to the user and read text from the user at the keyboard using the pre-built objects cout and cin that are provided by the C++ standard library. We'll talk about fundamental data types in C++ which enable you to represent things like whole numbers, which are called integers, or floating point numbers. We'll also show you how to declare variables to store information in your applications so that you can use that information at a later point in your program. We'll look at various operators of the language, so we'll talk about basic arithmetic in C++, and we'll also look at the equality and relational operators which are used to make decisions in a program. And as part of that, we'll introduce one of C++'s control statements known as the if statement for making decisions. We're also going to, at the end of this lesson, start to talk about working with objects of pre-existing classes. And for that purpose, we've coined a term for our approach to presenting C++. We're calling it the object's natural approach, and it is frequently the case in C++ and also in other object-oriented languages as well that you will create and use objects of pre-existing classes to enable you to perform tasks in your applications. And as you'll see, with that approach, you're often going to be able to perform pretty significant tasks with just a few lines of code. So throughout the early videos, one of the things that we will do is focus on this object's natural approach where you'll take advantage of C++ classes that come from the C++ standard library, so you'll get that with every version of C++ across platforms, from various third-party open source libraries as well, and for some of you, you may also take advantage of platform-specific libraries. So for example, if you're developing desktop applications for macOS or for Windows, you would typically be taking advantage of pre-existing libraries that are specific to each of those application platforms. Now before I continue with the actual examples from Lesson 2, I do want to remind you that I'm assuming that you've already gone through the Before You Begin section for the setup instructions so that you have a valid C++ 20 compiler available to you, that you've also downloaded our source code examples so that you can compile them and run them in conjunction with watching these videos, and also, finally, that you've gone through one of the appropriate Lesson 1 test drives that show you how to compile and run C++ application code for your particular compiler, whichever one you happen to be working with.
